To enable the nth bit in a number, which bitwise
operator can we use?
We can use bitwise OR operator, Because if we do
bitwise OR between zero and one, we will get one.
and if we do bitwise OR between one and one
also we will get one.
So what we can do here is, we can create
a bit mask with nth bit alone set to one.
And then if we perform bitwise OR between the
number and the bit mask, the nth bit will be
set to one and the remaining bits will remain as
the same as it is in number.
So what we can do here is, we can create
a bit mask with nth bit alone set to one.
Now if we do bbitwise AND between the number
and this bit mask, we will get zero
if the nth bit in the number is not set or zero
else we will get  non zero number
Now let us see how to create a bit mask
with nth bit alone set to one
Let us see an example.
Here let us create a bit mask with seventh bit set
to one. That is, here n equal to seven
To do this we can make use of left shift
operator
Now let us take the number one where the first bit
alone is one and the other bits are zero
Let us perform left shift operation to move this one
to the seventh bit.
For that we have to do 1 2 3 4 5 6 left shifts to
reach the seventh bit. So do one left shift six
And if we want to create a bit mask with
fifth bit alone set to one, we have to perform
1 2 3 4 left shifts on number one. That is one left
shift four. Thus to set nth bit alone to one,
we have to perform n-1 left shifts on
number one.
So let us take an example
Here the number is 35 and we have to
enable the fifth bit.
So here n is equal to five. So let us
create a bit mask with fifth bit set to one.
To do that take one and perform n-1
left shifts. That is, one left shift four and the
bit mask is now ready.
So perform bitwise OR on the number and the
bit mask.
Thus the fifth bit is set to one here and
the remaining bits will remain unchanged because when we perform
bitwise OR operation with bit value zero, the bit's value will
not change
That is one OR zero is one and zero OR zero is
zero
So we have thus enabled fifth bit in the number
35 and after enabling the fifth bit the value in
num is 51